# Triaging Skills:

Skills triage is the practice of reviewing existing [skill pull requests (PRs)](https://github.com/instruct-lab/taxonomy/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3Askill) to make sure they're relevant, actionable, and have all the information needed to be fully evaluated by both the Taxonomy Triage team (Triagers, @taxonomy-triagers) and the Taxonomy Approvers (Approvers, @taxonomy-approvers).

Triagers should review open pull requests and use labels to manage their state and any actions needed. Triagers are also encouraged to provide informative and helpful comments either back to the contributor, to other Triagers or to the Approvers. And remember to be nice.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Triagers DO NOT MERGE skills pull requests. This action will be done after final approval by @taxonomy-approvers

## Basic review questions:
- Does the PR have the pull request template information filled out?
  - If skill has not been run through lmdk, assign unverified label
- Did all the PR checks pass?
- Does the skill have 3 or more examples?
- Make sure fields in YAML are correct
  - configure tooling eventually: linting, formatting
- No PII in content (may eventually be automated)
- No toxic or hateful content (HAP - hate abuse and profanity) (may eventually be automated)
- Was response clearly generated by LLM (not easy but if very obvious) (may eventually be automated)

## Subjective review questions:
- Is this a skill or knowledge
- Do we think that the model could actually be improved by the examples?
  - Is this a skill that you can even teach an LLM
- Is the skill appropriately placed within the taxonomy? (If outside of skill directory, address the issue)

> [!NOTE]
> The skill taxonomy structure is used in two ways:
>    1. Selecting the right subset of the taxonomy to use for data generation
>    2. Interpretability by human contributors and maintainers
> Therefore: Don't overthink it, but do check to see if there's a more logical place in the taxonomy structure for a person's contribution to live before signing off.

## Potential automation: (at a later date)
- HAP filtering
- PII filtering
- sanity check: is model response similar or complete different from provided by contributor?
- sanity check: is this a skill that you can even teach an LLM?

## Labels:
- https://github.com/instruct-lab/taxonomy/labels/skill - a skills contribution as opposed to documentation contribution or a knowledge contribution (not yet accepted)
- https://github.com/instruct-lab/taxonomy/labels/unverified - skill has not been run through lmdk
- https://github.com/instruct-lab/taxonomy/labels/triage-needed - skill needs a triager to review it
  - triager assigns to themself when you beginning review
- https://github.com/instruct-lab/taxonomy/labels/triage-requested-changes - skill has been reviewed; changes requested from contributor
  - triager provides comment in PR asking for additional changes or information
  - triager assigns to contributor
- https://github.com/instruct-lab/taxonomy/labels/triage-uncertain - triager is uncertain which can be for a variety of reasons
  - triager stays assigned
  - use comment to ask the rest of the triage team for input tagging @taxonomy-triagers
  - if still uncertain
    - then re-assign to @taxonomy-approvers
    - triager tags @taxonomy-approvers in informative comment asking for further review from that team
- https://github.com/instruct-lab/taxonomy/labels/triage-approved - skill meets criteria
  - re-assign to @taxonomy-approvers
  - add comment and tag @taxonomy-approvers
- https://github.com/instruct-lab/taxonomy/labels/triage-rejected - skill fails criteria
  - add informative comment while tagging @taxonomy-approvers
  - re-assign to @taxonomy-approvers

## Helpful guidance for different determinations

### Reasons for approval:
* Generation seeds (success!) <!-- TODO: what does this mean? -->
* Meets all criteria

### Reasons for needing further review:
* Needs more extensive edits
* General "I Don't Know"
* Safety tasks and skills should always be escalated to @taxonomy-approvers
* Super interesting, warrants further study

### Reasons for rejection:
* Submitted knowledge not a skill. For example, troubleshooting on an uncommon IBM Storage Fusion error message. 
* Obviously GPT answer, blocklist. 
* Couldn’t verify that the model actually lacks the skills — i.e. model can already answer the submitted questions well enough. 
* Provide examples of model response is too short and neglected reasoning details. For example: A logical question requires multi-step reasoning to reach to the final answer. The submitted model response only gives the final answer. 
* Uninformative examples. For example, not all examples match the skill requested; Or the user didn’t put three independent question/answer pairs for the skill, but mistakenly submitted three chat turns for the three questions/answer pairs. Or overly repetitive examples which do not help to clear define of the requested skill. 
* Missing examples: didn’t provide desired model response for the skill. 

NOTE: Skills triagers should try to include as much information as to why the contribution is rejected.
